What is NB-IoT?

Today, about 6.5 billion things are connected to the internet, whilst this sounds like a lot, less than 1% of the all the things that could be connected, are connected. So why aren’t they? They’re either too remote, too inaccessible or simply too many of them to make it economically viable to do so.

Until now…

Narrowband-IoT (NB-IoT) is a new technology standard, designed to broaden the future of IoT connectivity. Ratified by the 3GPP, a telecoms standards body which works to develop future generation wireless technologies, NB-IoT will soon be deployed by operators across the globe.

The technology was developed to enable efficient communication and long battery life for mass distributed devices across wide geographical footprints and deep within urban infrastructure.
Low-Power Wide-Area (LPWA) Technology

Narrowband-IoT is a Low-Power Wide-Area (LPWA) network technology, developed to enable efficient communication for mass distributed devices across wide geographical footprints and deep within urban infrastructure. It’s ideal for devices that generate low data traffic, rely on batteries and typically have a long device life cycle.

NB-IoT can be used to connect simple devices, such as sensors, to drive new data streams, reduce operational costs and create new business models. Smart Meters, Smart Bins, environmental monitoring and precision agriculture are just a few applications of NB-IoT.


Practical applications of NB-IoT

NB-IoT is an efficient, cost effective technology for a wide range of IoT applications. Any devices that require low energy consumption, have low data transfer demands and are geographically dispersed or remote can benefit from its application. Industry leading developments so far include:

    Gas Metering
    Environmental Monitoring
    Water Metering
    Smoke and Fire Alarms
    Liquid and pressurised fuels
    Parking monitoring
    Smart Bins
    Alarms and event detectors

Read more about how NB-IoT will connect the internet of hidden things
Why use NB-IoT?

NB-IoT turns ordinary devices into smart devices. These newly enabled devices can then transmit critical information which will change the way businesses collate data. In addition to being low cost and low power, there are some key reasons to choose NB-IoT:

    LTE grade security as standard, keeping your data and network safe
    Uses existing networks minimising the need to deploy additional infrastructure
    Based on open standards - service is not vendor or operator dependant
    Wide industry support from service providers through to chipset makers
    Supports two-way communication
    Operates in a licensed spectrum and provides assured quality of service with minimal risk of disruption.
